# ORDER_APP

This project contains source code and supporting files for a serverless application that is deployed with the SAM CLI. It includes the following files and folders.

- functions - Code for the application's Lambda function.
- template.yaml - A template that defines the application's AWS resources.

The application uses several AWS resources, including Lambda functions,DynamoDB,S3,SAM pipeline and an API Gateway API. These resources are defined in the `template.yaml` and `pipeline.yaml`

## Deploy the  application

The Serverless Application Model Command Line Interface (SAM CLI) is an extension of the AWS CLI that adds functionality for building and testing Lambda applications. You can use a Docker to run your functions in your dev environment that matches Lambda. It can also emulate your application's build environment and API.

To use the SAM CLI, you need the following tools.

* SAM CLI - [Install the SAM CLI](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/serverless-application-model/latest/developerguide/serverless-sam-cli-install.html)
* Node.js - [Install Node.js 10](https://nodejs.org/en/), including the NPM package management tool.
* Docker - [Install Docker community edition](https://hub.docker.com/search/?type=edition&offering=community)

You can find your API Gateway Endpoint URL in the output values displayed after deployment.

## Use the SAM CLI to build and test locally

Build your application with the `sam build` command.

```bash
ORDER_APP$ sam build
```

The SAM CLI installs dependencies defined in `Order_app/package.json`, creates a deployment package, and saves it in the `.aws-sam/build` folder.

Run functions locally and invoke them with the `sam local invoke` command.

The SAM CLI can also emulate your application's API. Use the `sam local start-api` to run the API locally on port 3000.

```bash
ORDER_APP$ sam local start-api
ORDER_APP$ curl http://localhost:3000/
```

## Add a resource to your application

The application template uses AWS Serverless Application Model (AWS SAM) to define application resources. AWS SAM is an extension of AWS CloudFormation with a simpler syntax for configuring common serverless application resources such as functions, triggers, and APIs. For resources not included in [the SAM specification](https://github.com/awslabs/serverless-application-model/blob/master/versions/2016-10-31.md), you can use standard [AWS CloudFormation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/aws-template-resource-type-ref.html) resource types.

## Fetch, tail, and filter Lambda function logs

To simplify troubleshooting, SAM CLI has a command called `sam logs`. `sam logs` lets you fetch logs generated by your deployed Lambda function from the command line. In addition to printing the logs on the terminal, this command has several nifty features to help you quickly find the bug.

`NOTE`: This command works for all AWS Lambda functions; not just the ones you deploy using SAM.

```bash
ORDER_APP$ sam logs -n ORDER_APPFunction --stack-name ORDER_APP --tail
```

You can find more information and examples about filtering Lambda function logs in the [SAM CLI Documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/serverless-application-model/latest/developerguide/serverless-sam-cli-logging.html).


## CI/CD deployment (SAM Pipeline with Github Actions)

AWS SAM Pipelines provides templates for popular CI/CD systems such as AWS CodePipeline, Jenkins, GitHub Actions, and GitLab CI/CD, These templates include AWS deployment best practices to help with multi-account and multi-Region deployments.

AWS SAM Pipelines is composed of two commands:

`sam pipeline bootstrap`, a configuration command that creates the AWS resources required to create a pipeline.
sam pipeline init, an initialization command that creates a pipeline file for your preferred CI/CD system. For example, a pipeline.yaml for Github or a .gitlab-ci.yml file for GitLab CI/CD.

## Creating pipeline deployment resources

Use the  `sam pipeline bootstrap` command to create the AWS resources and permissions required to deploy application artifacts from your code repository into your AWS environments.
This guides you through a series of questions to help create a .pipeline.yaml file. The --bootstrap option enables you to set up AWS pipeline stage resources before the template file is initialized:

AWS SAM Pipelines creates a PipelineUser with an associated ACCESS_KEY_ID and SECRET_ACCESS_KEY which Github actions uses to deploy artifacts to your AWS accounts. An S3 bucket is created along with two roles PipelineExecutionRole and CloudFormationExecutionRole. (You could create the various resources and simply provide the AWS ARN)

## Configure Github CI/CD credentials

Github CI/CD uses the AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID and AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY to authenticate to your AWS account. The values are associated with a new user generated in the previous sam pipeline init --bootstrap step. Save these values securely in Github’s CI/CD secretes section
